.TH simple_shell 1 "29 Mar 2018" "version 1.0" "man_1_simple_shell"
.SH NAME
.B Simple Shell
(hsh)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsh
[
.B -asdfsag
]
[
.I arg
]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Simple Shell
is a UNIX command interpreter that reads lines from the terminal and
interprets/executes them. The program displays a prompt and waits for
user input. The prompt will continue to display again after executing a
command until user
.B exit
or terminates
.B (Crtl + D)
the program.

.SS Path Search
When locating a command, the shell first looks to see if it has a shell
function by that name, then it looks for a builtin command by that name.
If a builtin command is not found, one of two things happen:
.IP 1.
Command names containing a slash are simply executed without performing
any searches.
.IP 2.
The shell searches each entry in PATH in turn for the command.
The value of the PATH variable should be a series of entries seperated
by colons. Each entry consists of a directory name. The current
directory may be indicated implicitly by an empty directory name, or
explicitly by a single period.
.SS Command Exit Status
Each command has an exit status that can influence the behaviour of
other shell commands.  The paradigm is that a command exits with
zero for normal or success, and non-zero for failure, error, or a
false indication.  The man page for each command should indicate the
various exit codes and what they mean.  Additionally, the builtin
commands return exit codes, as does an executed shell function.

If a command consists entirely of variable assignments then the exit
status of the command is that of the last command substitution if
any, otherwise 0.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Errors that are detected by the shell, such as a syntax error, will
cause the shell to exit with a non-zero exit status.  If the shell
is not an interactive shell, the execution of the shell file will be
aborted.  Otherwise the shell will return the exit status of the
last command executed, or if the exit builtin is used with a numeric
argument, it will return the argument.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP HOME
Set automatically by login(1) from the user's login
directory in the password file (passwd(4)).  This
environment variable also functions as the default
argument for the cd builtin.
.IP PATH
The default search path for executables. See the above
section
.I Path Search
.IP IFS
Input Field Separators. This is normally set to ⟨space⟩,
⟨tab⟩, and ⟨newline⟩.
.IP PWD
The logical value of the current working directory.
.IP OLDPWD
The previous logical value of the current working
directory.
.IP PPID
The process ID of the parent process of the shell
.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.profile

.I /etc/profile
.SH BUGS
Memory leaks everywhere!
.SH AUTHOR
Armando Nuno and Leon Cheung